we begin with breaking news out of
Northern Gaza that's where an Israeli
strike has killed three sons and three
grandchildren of hamas's political
leader several members of is hania's
family were traveling in the alhat
refugee camp when their vehicle was hit
and speaking to Al jazer hania said the
killings would only Harden hamas's
resolve he also said the attack would
not affect the group's demands in
ceasefire
negotiations they believe that if they
kill or assassinate leaders or their
next of kin that we will abandon our
people that we will abandon our
resistance they are mistaken this Noble
blood that is spilled including my own
children will harden our resolve make us
more defiant more adamant to continue to
march on this road the road of struggle
and resistance until we win our freedom
and the lawful rights of the Palestinian
peoples are restored well we have three
correspondents covering the latest
developments on this story in a moment
we'll speak to our White House Cor
responding kimy hit for what we're
hearing out of the US Rory Chalin is
standing by and occupied East Jerusalem
with reaction from Israel but first we
bring in hanni Mahmud who's joining us
from Southern Gaza with the very latest
on this developing uh story hany so what
more we what more do we know about this
attack yes well not only the attacks on
the sons and the grandsons of SM that's
the political bureau chief of Hamas in
Gaza we're seeing also a surge within
the past 45 minutes we received six
reports of six more air strikes in the
Central Area mainly in the western part
of the Central Area including a refugee
camp that's blocked to to the west of
the Central Area uh waza area that's the
area that has been designated as a safe
Zone in which all displ uh families and
Palestinians in the southern part of the
strip were literally told to take that
part uh of the strip and to the to
further southern part of the strip as a
safe zone for them also in uh the
northern part in Gaza City but the the
fact that we seen an attack on on the uh
the sons and the grandsons of a
political leader here is is largely
viewed and believed by so many as a as a
way to dictate the talks or the course
of the ceasefire talks uh in Cairo it is
also as a statement made uh made by uh
one of Hamas political leaders it's it
looks like more of a Revenge Kelling and
because Israel milit Israeli military
did not make a progress on the ground it
resorted into a Revenge killing by
attacking the children of Hamas leaders
in the in the Gaza Strip okay hany thank
you so much for that update from RAF in
Gaza we'll cross over to occupi e
Jerusalem speak to Rory chalen so Rory
any reaction from Israel about this
killing there is but not official
reaction certainly nothing from the
government or from the military itself
the only thing we do have at the moment
is a video that has been released by a
member of the knesset called Al Mo Cohen
now he is a member of Ben gav's far
right UT my yehudit party and in this
video he says that he was uh on the way
to visit the family uh The Grieving
family of a soldier when he received
good news as he put it uh and then he
finishes his video by saying isma Kia ID
Mubarak you are next in line now we
should not mistake this for being the
official government line as I've just
said but who knows what Israeli
government members are saying to each
other behind closed doors at the moment
yeah and I mean one will have to kind of
wait and see I suppose on if and whether
this will impact the ongoing ceasefire
negotiations well Hamas has already said
that it will not change their demands
but the timing of this is extraordinary
isn't it I mean for one thing this was
in the beginning of Eid which is a a
time of Muslim celebration and joy
should be uh also it comes when this
ceasefire
negotiation which would
see some sort of Peace restored to Gaza
perhaps only temporarily it would also
see perhaps uh exchanges of of prisoners
and captives Etc all of that is hanging
uh in the balance at the moment so yes
there are more questions than answers uh
right now but we have to say to
ourselves well who took this decision uh
did they know who they were going
after this kind of strike is usually
done on uh signals intelligence which
means that they monitor uh phone numbers
cell phone numbers uh and they can plot
those uh by the triangulation of a
normal sort of cell network so they know
who they're going after and where they
are that's how they do the strikes but
the bigger question is if they have all
that information and they know who
they're going after who makes the all is
this just a military decision or does a
strike of this significance have to have
high level political sign off now
whoever took the decision must have
known that this would perhaps jeopardize
the ceasefire negotiations and I think
there are many people both within the
military and in the government who
wouldn't shed any tears over that okay
thank you Rory thanks for that update
from occupied East Jerusalem and now to
our White House correspondent Kimberly
hit joining us from Washington DC so
have we heard anything from the white
house yet on this Kimberly and and how
does this attack on hania's family
members look considering Biden's
comments that Netanyahu is making a
mistake in Gaza very recent
comments well this is only going to make
the already tense relationship between
the Israeli Prime Minister and the US
President Joe Biden uh which has been
fraught with uh disagreements and
differences uh become that much more
difficult given the fact that the US
president has in the last 24 hours
sharpened his criticism of the Israeli
Prime Minister uh this is not going to
be welcome news to the US president the
US president in the last 24 hours as you
point out called the actions of the
Israeli Prime Minister and the way he
has conducted his war on Gaza a mistake
he has called for an immediate ceasefire
given the fact that there are an excess
of 33,000 Palestinians that have been
killed there is near famine and uh
humanitarian catastrophe that exists in
Gaza he is calling for the fact that
there needs to be an increase in the
amount of humanitarian Aid and that's
what he is looking for a duration of at
least eight weeks uh but he has also
said that what he believes is that
Netanyahu is doing this for his
political survival and as a result he
says he does not agree with the approach
so uh we are watching very carefully
here at the White House given the fact
fact that this is a state visit that is
being conducted here at the White House
today with the Japanese prime minister
kashida there is a joint press
conference that is set to begin in about
20 minutes or so if it's on time which
is unlikely that usually isn't the case
but this is likely to be one of the top
questions from reporters given the fact
that there will be likely a desire to
see reaction uh on the deaths of the
grandchildren and Sons of of the Hamas
political leader so this is certainly
going to complicate the relationship
between the US president and the Israeli
Prim Minister yeah and kimly we'll be
watching very closely to see whether
this affects the negotiations process at
all which of course the US has a major
role to play
in yeah it's it's taken the lead uh with
of course the Egypt its partner and uh
this is probably going to complicate
that as well given the fact we were told
uh just on Tuesday by the National
Security advisor Jake Sullivan that the
latest in that process was that they
were awaiting they being the United
States a response from Hamas but uh
given now the developments of the deaths
of the sons and grandchildren six in
total of the Hamas political leader that
response may not now be forthcoming and
that is certainly going to put a wrench
in the wheel of the or the gears of this
process given the fact that uh there was
it looked like progress in trying to get
the release of captives in exchange for
Palestinian prisoners and in Israeli
jails and so uh the hopefulness that
there might be some sort of breakthrough
in this process uh may now come to to a
grinding Halt and that is going to be
discouraging for the white house uh that
was really hopeful that they finally had
uh achieved some sort of breakthrough
between Hamas and the Israelis okay
thank you Kimberly H thanks so much for
that reporting from the White House we
can now speak to n who's a political
analyst and the columnist she's joining
us from rala in the occupied West Bank n
welcome um to Al jazer so I was just
discussing with Kimberly that uh Biden
was recently saying that Netanyahu is
making a mistake in Gaza but with this
killing now in Gaza the Israeli Prime
Minister seems to be doubling down on
that with uh with the Hamas political
leaders family being
killed absolutely it seems that
Netanyahu is and his Coalition are
intent on further H escalation uh we
have to also remember that assassinating
or going after the families of prominent
Palestinian leaders from all factions is
not a novel it's not an anomaly this is
consistent with Israeli actions over
decades and we've SE that we've seen
that happen over and over again but as
you've been discussing in the bulletin
the timing of this uh assassination the
fact that it was a Precision attack that
most likely uh you know who was in the
car is pretty much known to whoever gave
the okay to pull the trigger uh one has
to wonder if Tel Aviv really wants a
positive
response um from K in Cairo about a
possible ceasefire and an exchange of
captives because of course you know SM
hania's reaction is expected this would
not change the resolve of Hamas it would
not change how negotiations are uh
conducted but even in terms of
perception uh people uh are going to see
this as Israel poking Hamas in the eye
and they will want to see how Hamas is
going to respond what do you think the
message is that Israel was trying to
respond uh to uh convey excuse me with
this
attack I think Israel has been very
consistent and the the ones who don't
really want to hear what the Israeli
message is are its closest allies from
the beginning of this genocidal war is
the Israeli cabinet members have been
very clear they want they said and they
promised they will decimate Gaza they
will kill kill uh everybody they will
want to expel as many Palestinians as
possible and they're going to go all the
way and that includes ra and I believe
this escalation coupled with the fact
that just less than 24 hours ago we
heard from Netanyahu himself saying that
a date has been picked uh for the
invasion of Rafa it just means that
Israel is you know making good on its
promise given the fact that we hear a
lot about you know Washington being
upset and angry and in disagreement but
we don't really see any action towards
all of these incorrect Israeli policy
decisions except statements and
meanwhile weapons continue to flow in
political protection continues uh um you
know and is unshakable and and countries
like Germany is willing to go to to the
international court of justice to defend
its complicity in this war rather than
you know change course and change policy
so we'll have to see how how this plays
out you you said a moment ago that the
hamas's response was expected when hania
said that the he he said this the
killing of my sons will not affect Hamas
um ceasefire demands um I mean do you
think though that this kind of throws a
wrench into the works when it comes to
this negotiating Pro negotiation process
that's uh that's currently
underway well look you know more than
33,000 Palestinians have been killed by
Israel since the beginning of this war
up to 20,000 are buried under the rubble
uh the children and grandchildren of the
leader of Hamas cannot and would not be
placed at a higher value than those uh
Souls who were lost uh including more
than 14,000 children but the Optics of
it and the political messaging of this
assassination um is significant and and
that's why I don't think that we can
count it down or or discard it in terms
of how Hamas will read these messages
and and and I think it speaks a lot
because what we've been hearing even
while these negotiations are happening
even while you know Washington sent in
its big guns to play a heavy role in the
negotiations is Israel and the US for
that matter saying okay we'll negotiate
a deal there will be a six to8 week
ceasefire there will in exchange of
captives but then Israel will go back
right to the killing to the destruction
to the displacement and to finishing of
Hamas which I think everybody all saying
experts agree is not an achievable goal
uh so the Dynamics and the expectation
that something positive can come out of
somebody telling you let's talk now but
then once we're done once once the deal
is done I'm going to come back at you
and I'm I'm coming back to kill you off
without a change or break in that
Dynamic on top of this assassination I
think it makes it less and less likely
that we're going to say see a
breakthrough in the coming hours all
right n thank you so much for speaking
to us from
Ral make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz